# WaterlooPortfolio2021
## Introduction
### Hello, Welcome to Adish's Coding Portfolio! 
#### I greatly appreciate the time and effort you are putting in to see my work. It took me a long time in organzing this masterpiece and so, I really do hope you enjoy and get a feel of some of my talents and skills in programming. Without further ado, let's get started with going over what this portfolio looks like.:sunglasses:
 
## Overview
#### This portfolio will contain projects and assignments that are based on Java. I have built projects that are based on python and web-development programming languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript however, those are more complex and harder for me to showcase at the moment because they are still a work in progress. So for the sake of simplicity, I have kept this portfolio Java-based only. HEY BUT C'MON, EVERYONE LOVES JAVA!:smile::satisfied:      

#### Anyways, all the work I have uploaded onto this portfolio has been stuff I worked on during a computer science course I participated in at my high school. This is work from semester 1 though, I am still apart of the CS course in semester 2 as I chose to do this course for a full year because coding is my passion!!!:blue_heart::purple_heart::green_heart::heart: 

#### For the most part, I made all the materials within this portfolio easy to access but let's do a quick walkthrough on how you can access the files. If you are reading this text, then you should be on the repository's main page. Simply, click on the "Coding" folder under the "main" branch and then you will see two more folders that says "Assignments" and "Projects". Click on one of them and you will then be directed to the folder that contains each of the assignments or each of the projects depending on which folder you chose. There are 3 assignments and 3 projects to choose from. 

#### From here, if you are still reading this (sorry for making this long btw:sleeping::sleepy:, I will try to speed up I promise!!:sweat_smile:) and know how to run the program(s) on you IDE, then you can simply skip to the "Assignment Description" section that explains how each assignment works. If not, then I will explain to the best of my abilities on how you can run the program(s) on your computer in the next section which is right below this line. 

## How to Run the Program(s) on Your Computer
#### Alright so first, you need to download an IDE on your computer that supports Java Files. Some common IDE's for Java are IntelliJ, Visual Studio Code, and NetBeans. Once you have downloaded the appropriate IDE, you need to add the Java Extension so that your IDE can support Java formatted files (this is not required if you downloaded IntelliJ). You then need to create a "New Project" in your IDE first before copying the files from this portfolio onto your computer for the corresponding assignment or project. Make sure to name the project the same as what the assignment is called, otherwise, you may not be able to run the program. One of the assignments and projects has a number after its name for the its folder, you can simply ignore that and just call your project by the name without having that number at the end. 

#### Once this step has been completed, you then need to copy all the files from the "src" folder of each assignment or project from this portfolio to the "src" folder for the new project that you created locally on your computer. That "src" folder for the new project you created should be inside the directory you chose on your computer as you were making the project. **Do not copy any other files from the assignment(s) or project(s) in this portfolio other than the files inside the "src" folder.** The other files were created when building the project on your IDE. Therefore, you already have those files when you created the project and those files will be different based on which IDE you are using.    
